---
layout:     post
title:      "Precourse: Week 1"
subtitle:   "Command Line and Git"
date:       2016-03-19 23:00:00
author:     "Emily"
header-img: "img/post_bg.jpg"
---

<p>The weekend before the precourse started seemed to drag on forever. At first I was happy about it; I was nervous (read:scared) of what was to come. I went back through some of Chris Pine's tutorials which we had been given as interview prep, trying desperately to ensure that all of the stuff I had learnt wouldn't just evaporate from my mind before I'd even got a chance to put it into practice. By the time Sunday night came though, I felt ready and raring to go - I couldn't wait to get started. <!--more--></p> 

<p>On Monday evening, myself and the rest of my cohort logged into Slack, an impressive messaging/collaboration tool that we will be using to communicate throughout the rest of the course. We introduced ourselves and generally got to know eachother a bit before the meeting began whilst the resident cohort at Makers HQ did the same. The meeting was short but useful, covering what would be expected of us over the next 4 weeks and beyond, and how best to approach it. An intro into the next 4 months of our lives. </p>

<p> On Tuesday morning we received our kickoff email and off we went. On the menu this week was command line and git, 2 tools that would be crucial to us going forward. Whilst I had a fair bit of experience in command line, I was coming at it more from a networking standpoint than anything else and it became clear very quickly that I had only just scratched the surface. The sheer amount of things you can do through that little black box is remarkable and as ridiculous as it sounds, it made me feel more like a developer - the gui was now for mere mortals, not development professionals. Creating, deleting, moving and editing files/directories, searching through them, changing permissions without going into Finder once. I didn't find any of it too challenging until we were introduced to Regular Expressions and now, at the end of the week, I'm still not entirely sure I could even use the simplest ones without looking them up constantly.</p>

<p> Next was git and GitHub, an extremely popular way of managing, storing, sharing and collaborating on your code and that of others. I had looked at it very briefly before my interview, but at first glance I'll admit I didn't have a clue what it was or what it was used for. Thankfully it all became clear with the resources and information provided to us by the Makers team. Before too long I had set up a number of repositories, connected them up to Github and could pull and push code between the two with a vague air of confidence (give or take a couple of moments staring blankly at the screen and praying for an epiphany of some sort, an experience I imagine will become all too familiar in the weeks ahead).</p>

<p> The challenge this week was the Command Line Mystery - there had been a murder in Terminal City and we were tasked  with finding the culprit armed with nothing but our little black box (or what ended up in my case being many many little black boxes). It was a lot of fun and very well designed, perfectly complimenting the topics we had covered in the week so far. By the time came to submit the murderer, I was vastly more confident in the commands and their uses than I was before I started it.</p>

<p> I had finished the weeks work by Wednesday evening so set about creating this blog, something we had each been asked to do as a way of documenting our experiences, challenges and successes in the weeks and months to come. You wouldn't think it to look at it, but it took me the best part of 2 days (including 6 hours trying to make the header image look better, only to change the window size in the browser and it break instantly). It was definitely challenging, up until this point everything we had done had had an accompanying structured guide we could look at each step of the way, but ultimately I'm pleased with the end result and I think it's going to be something I enjoy maintaining; not to mention any excuse to spend hours playing about with Photoshop is a good thing as far as I'm concerned. It had been a while since I was able to actually be creative, something I used to do very often when I was younger. I look forward to doing it more going forward.</p>

<p> As week 1 comes to a close and week 2 looms, I feel incredibly grateful to have been given the opportunity to be a part of something like this, it doesn't all feel quite real yet. Everyone, the Makers team and my fellow cohort are so friendly and helpful, the material is interesting and I can't wait to start the next chapter. Ruby is up next, I think that calls for a day on Codewars tomorrow to prepare for it all to start again on Monday morning.</p>
